Eswara Nadi was said to be the work of one of the greatest Tamil Poet Agasthiyar. He was also known as ‘Kumbha Muni’ because he was created from a pitcher. While writing the Eswara Nadi, he made seven ‘Khandams’ or sections. They are named after the seven planets from the Sun to Saturn. There is no mention of any section for the planets Rahu and Ketu. However, in all these seven ‘Khandams,’ he considers the position of Rahu and Ketu also. Normally, Nadi texts do not think about the Lagna position. But Saptarishi Nadi and this treatise, Eswara Nadi, give predictions Lagna-wise. The entire work is written in the Tamil language. 
After considerable effort, including numerous library searches and consultations with traditional astrologers in Tamil Nadu, I was able to obtain all seven Khandams of this magnificent work. I am attempting to translate all seven parts from Tamil to English. I am also providing the Tamil verses so that people who can read Tamil and are reading this book can verify the translation. 
I have also tried to give exhaustive explanations/interpretations. These explanations are based on numerous Nadi rules, Parasari, and Jaimini principles. They are coupled with my study of various other classical astrological books, such as Phaladeepika, Jataka Parijata, and Bhrighu Samhita, to name a few. I have applied many Nadi rules from Bhrighu Nadi, Nandi Nadi, and Saptarishi Nadi. Progression according to Nadi rules, the Bhrighu Samhita, and the Lal Kitab has also been considered. 
My main aim was to compare the traditional astrological rules for each of the Nadi verses. Hence, I have attempted to apply the existing astrological rules to all the verses, in conjunction with Nadi rules. 
Karakatwas is the central theme of this Nadi as explained below. There is a subtle difference between traditional astrology and Nadi Astrology concerning Karakatwa. For example, the Sun is the karakatwa for father and Jupiter for children in conventional astrology. In Nadi, the Sun is considered as karakatwa for the first son. Mars typically signifies brothers or siblings in general in traditional astrology. Nadi takes Saturn, representing the elder brother, and Mars denotes the younger brother.
It is essential that taking Karakatwas that are not relevant for a planet leads to wrong interpretation and predictions, hence the importance of knowing and correctly applying each planet’s specific Karakatwas. 
Karakatwas affect how planets influence various aspects, including family members, career, education, health, and personality traits.
Next, all nine planets are not taken into consideration by the Rishi while pronouncing the results. Only the karaka planet and its essential relationship with the planets responsible for the event are considered. Those who are aware of the Nadi rules of interpreting a horoscope will be able to understand this. The planets conjunct, the dispositor of the planet, the trinal occupants from the karaka planet or the karakatwa rasi, as also the 7th from them, and many more Nadi rules must be applied to understand the writings of the Rishi. 
Since the task undertaken is a lengthy one, I am unable to devote much time in giving more detailed explanations. If anyone is interested in providing further explanations for the verses in the book, they are welcome to do so, and they can also contact me for guidance in this regard.
During my tenure at Saptarishi Astrology, which operated an e-magazine, numerous chapters, particularly Kuja Khandam, were translated and published, offering astrological insights and detailed explanations. This was done in collaboration with many other writers, including me. Readers interested in exploring the archives can visit the Saptarishi Astrology website.
In the introduction part of this translation, Saptarishi Astrology has stated as follows:
Written in Tamil by ‘Palakkodu Josyam’ Sri R. Appusamy Pillai, son of Ramasamy Pillai, edited by Sri V.Vasudevam Pillai and published by Sri Govindaraju Mudaliyar of Rathnamangalam in the year 1931.
It is not written by Sri R. Appusamy Pillai, as stated above. He copied the verses from the palm leaves only. The palm leaves are still available in the Saraswathi Mahal Library, Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu, India. I checked the starting leaf also. It clearly states that it was (“கும்ப மகா முனிவர் திருவாய் மலர்ந்தருளிய) blossomed from the divine lips of Kumba Maha Muni, who is Agasthiyar. 
There is no direct mention of the names of planets like the Sun, Moon, etc., in the entire narration. They are referred to either as per karakatwa, or ownership of the Bhava concerning the Lagna in question. While mentioning the Bhava, the karaka of the Bhava is also mentioned. Hence, it becomes necessary to give the details of the Karakatwa of the planets as well as the Bhava place and its Karakatwa.
Karakatwa	Planet	Bhava-Sthana
Father-Pitru	Sun	9th house -Pitru
Mother-Matru	Moon	4th house-Matru
Siblings-Bhratru	Mars	3rd house-Bhratru
Education-Vidya	Mercury	
Children-Putra	Jupiter	5th house-Putra
Spouse-Kalatra	Venus	7th house-Kalatra
Longevity-Ayush	Saturn	
Intelligence-Gnana	Rahu	
Moksha Karaka	Ketu	

In some places, I would have given a literal translation. Hence, if I have mentioned Pitru Karaka, it denotes the Sun; Vidya Karaka means Mercury. Likewise, Pitru Sthana lord refers to the lord of the 9th house, and Kalatra sthana lord refers to the lord of the 7th house. Readers, if any doubt arises while reading the translation, they can verify this table.
In many verses, aspects of the planets are considered. In most verses, charts are provided along with the planets discussed in each verse. If the chart is not available and if a reference to an aspect is given, that puts us in difficulty as to where the planet can be placed. For instance, in one verse, he says if Lagna is aspected by Ayush karaka – Here, Ayush karaka is Saturn. Saturn has three aspects – the 3rd, 7th, and 10th. Now we come into difficulty as to where we should place Saturn. With my limited knowledge of Astrology, I have tried to give a suitable placement for such sayings of the Rishi. In the translation section, I have omitted such references and instead provided the positions of the planets only. 
Another crucial point is that, barring a few verses, no dasa system is employed for timing events in the nadi. Whenever a timing of an event is given, we must either use the progression as per the Nadi system or the age of fructification or activation of the particular planet responsible for the event. 
Also, in every khandam, after praying to Lord Ganesha, details about the planet’s auspicious results if placed in a specific house are given. If the planet is placed in other houses, then it will also give satisfactory results, provided that the planet is worshipped.
I am also providing a chart for all the verses in both South Indian and North Indian styles. Only the first two letters of the planets are given by me in the chart. 
I propose to make it 12 books for each Lagna, starting from Aries for the ‘Surya Khandam’. Likewise, it will also apply to the other six planets. There is no khandam available for Rahu and Ketu. The first part, viz., position of the Sun for Aries Lagna, is given in this book.
Surya Khandam's original Tamil verse is also available on www.scribd.com. I have not come across other khandams for other planets.
Yenbeeyes 
